JavaScript MA03
----------------
Level 2

1. In your own words, describe what JavaScript Code Style is.

JavaScript code style is how you write the code. JavaScript is very flexible and allows everyone to find their own coding style.
But, it is very important to write code that can be easily understood by other people that may need to edit or work with the code.

You should therefore think about how you write the code and focus on using good practices
like use of white space, comments, short line lengths, brackets on function, semicolons where appropriate,
indenting code and good and meaningful variable/function naming etc.


2. What is a Regular Expression?

A regular expression is a special text string used to search for a pattern.
It can be hard to understand at first but, it is very powerful.
It can slow down a application a bit so it should not be used unnecessary

It is very useful when validating user input to ensure that its in the correct format.
Like to ensure that a email address is in the correct format email@domain.com

It can also be used to replace some text string with another. Or to search for exact things in some data.

3. What does the .random() method do?

The random method creates a floating-point number in the range of 0–1.
This can then be scaled to the desired number size.

This method is not cryptographically secure and should not be used on anything related to security like passwords etc.


4. What does the .sort() method do?

The sort method sorts the elements of an array.
This method sorts by converting the elements to strings and compare their value.
A before B etc.

This will not work as you might think on numbers. Because it looks at the first character (number) first
and compare it to the other numbers first character and only looks at the second character of the
number if the first characters are equal.
If you have the array [2, 1, 6, 10, 13, 23];
It would be [1, 10, 13, 2, 23, 6]; after sort is applied.

This method mutates the array and do not create a new one.


5. What does the .reverse() method do?

The reverse method reverses an array.
The first element will be the last and the last element will be the first etc. Those in the middle will also be switched.
This method mutates the array and do not create a new one.


6. List two examples of bad JavaScript code.

Not using the var, let or const statement to define variables.
Using non-strict comparison operators instead of strict comparison operators (== vs ===).


7. What data types can a JSON object contain?

A JSON object can contain the data types: string, number, object, array and boolean.
It can also contain a empty value (null).


8. What is minifying JavaScript Code?

Minifying code is something that is done before running the code in production.
This process will make the code as small as possible, removing any unnecessary whitespace etc.

Depending on the settings of the minifyer comments may be removed and functions/variables might get shorter names.
Some minifyers also add polyfill (support for functions not supported by different browsers and other browser fixes)
to help with cross browser compatibility.

The minified code is not meant to be read and understood by humans
and is only meant for making downloads smaller and the page as fast as possible.


9. What is a global variable?

A global variable is a variable that is accessible everywhere in the application.
